PO Box 26793
Salt Lake City, UT 84126
www.projectapism.org
RESEARCH AGREEMENT382
THIS RESEARCH AGREEMENT382 (the “Agreement”) is made as of August 15,
2023,by and between Project Apis m, a California nonprofit corporation(the “PAm”), and
Auburn University(the “Contractor”).
Recitals
A. PAm is a party to a certain Research Management Agreement (the “Funding
Agreement”) with CropScience LP (“Bayer”), pursuant to which PAm receives fundingfrom
Bayerto support bee-related research. PAm desires to utilize a portion of such funding to
engageContractor to conduct certain research on the terms and conditions in this Agreement.
B. Contractor desires to conduct the research as provided herein.
Agreement
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and in reliance upon the mutual
promises contained in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. Research. Contractor agrees to take the actions and conduct the research as set
forth on Exhibit A hereto, includingproviding to PAm all deliverables described therein and the
Reports (defined below) (the “Project”). Dr. Geoffrey Williams shall be Contractor’s project
director for the Project (the “Project Director”). Contractor shall maintain communication with
the designated liaison for PAm regarding the status of the Project. Contractor shall provide PAm
a copy of any final publication resulting from the Project.
2. Reports. During the Term (defined below) Contractor shall provide to PAm: (i)
regularproject updates via email and telephone; (ii) detailed semi-annualreports due on October
1 and April 1; and (iii)and a final report following completion of the Project (each a “Report”
and collectively, the “Reports”). Each Reportwill include all elements outlined in PAm’s online
submission portal. Bayer and PAm shall be identified as the funding and research sponsor in all
Reports. All Reports will be of high quality by professional and academic standards (the
“Performance Standards”). PAm has the right to request,and Contractor shall provide, an update
to and/or resubmission of any Report which does not meet the Performance Standards. In
addition to the Reports, Contractor shall provide PAm with periodic updates regarding the
Project, suitable for PAm to share with the general public, regarding new developments and
overall status of the Project. PAm may provide copies of all Reports and other information
regarding the Project to Bayer.
3. Funding. PAm agrees to provide a total of $58,430.00(the “Funds”) to
Contractorforperformance of the Project, subject to and contingent uponPAm’s receipt of such
- 1 -
Funds from Bayer pursuant to the terms of the Funding Agreement. The Funds are a fixed
amount and are not subject to increase regardless of the amount expended by Contractor in
performing the Project. The Funds will be distributed to Contractor, following receipt by PAm
of an appropriate invoice from Contractor, in 2] installments, the first, $43,823.00 after signing
this agreement], with the final installment, $14,607.00 being delivered to Contractor only
following receipt by PAm of all deliverables set forth on Exhibit A and the final Report, each in
form and substance satisfactory to PAm. If Contractor fails to timely produce any deliverables
set forth in the Research Proposal or any Report or to resubmit any Report that does not meet the
Performance Standards, then PAm may withhold any unpaid installments of Funds. No Funds
may be used for overhead or indirect costs related to the performance of the Project. No Funds
may be used in any manner for the purpose of influencing legislation and/or influencing
governmental policy or action.
4. Term and Termination. The term of the Agreement shall commence on the date
hereof and end on July 1, 2025 (the “Term”). This Agreement may be terminated prior to the
expiration of the Term: (i) by PAm, if Contractor fails to produce Reports according to the
Performance Standards or (ii) by PAm, if Contractor breaches or defaults in any of its
representations, warranties, covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement if such breach
or default remains uncured following a ten (10) day cure period which shall commence upon
PAm’s written notice to Contractor of such breach or default; or (iii) by either party on thirty
(30) days advance written notice to the other party. PAm shall have no obligation to pay any
remaining installment payments of Funds that arise after the date of the termination of this
Agreement. Upon termination of this Agreement, Contractor shall provide PAm with all
complete and partially complete deliverables and Reports that exist as of the date of such
termination.
5. Independent Contractor Status. PAm and Contractor agree that Contractor and
PAm are acting as independent parties and that Contractor is an independent contractor. Neither
party shall be considered or represent itself as a joint venturer, partner, agent or employee of the
other.
6. Record Keeping. Contractor shall maintain accurate and complete books, records
and accounts of all financial transactions pertaining to the Project and the Funds. Contractor shall
permit PAm or its authorized representative to have access, during normal business hours, to all
records necessary to support the amounts distributed for research hereunder. Contractor will use
reasonable efforts to ensure that PAm receives all necessary documentation and responses to
questions raised during an audit in a timely manner. PAm will provide notice to Contractor, of at
least two (2) weeks prior to the commencement of any audit to allow the necessary time for
Contractor to retrieve supporting documentation. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties in
writing, Contractor shall retain its records for a period of at least five (5) years following the
termination of this Agreement.
7. Publicity. Contractor shall discuss and publish its findings with respect to the
Project in scientific seminars, conferences, webinars, presentations and scientific journals,
including venues and journals appropriate to communicate findings to commercial beekeepers.
Contractor is required to prominently acknowledge the participation of PAm and Bayer’s
HealthyHives in the Project at all public announcements regarding the Project and is required to
- 2 -
prominently display the Project Apis m. and HealthyHives names, logos and trademarks on all
written materials which are publicly released regarding the Project (including on websites);
provided however that the right of Contractor to display the Project Apis m. and Healthy Hives
names, logos and trademarks on written materials is limited solely to public written materials
regarding the Project and for no other purpose. PAm may use Contractor’s name and the name
of Contractor’s Project Director along with PAm’s reason for funding the Project.
8. Representations. Each party represents to the other that: he or it has full power,
capacity and authority to enter into this Agreement; the execution, delivery, and performance of
this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary action and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation enforceable against him or it in accordance with its terms; no action, suit, or
proceeding is pending or, to his or its knowledge, threatened against him or it before or by any
court, administrative agency, or other governmental authority that brings into question the
validity of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Contractor represents and warrants
that Contractor will throughout the duration of this Agreement remain in strict compliance with
all applicable laws and regulations.
9. Third Party Claims. From and after the date hereof, Contractor shall defend and
hold PAm harmless from and against any and all claims, liabilities, damages, losses or expenses
(including reasonable attorney’s fees) brought against PAm by third parties that arise from or are
related to the acts or omissions of Contractor in connection with this Agreement.
10. Miscellaneous. This Agreement constitutes the complete agreement between the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all previous agreements, whether
written or oral. This Agreement may not be assigned by Contractor without the prior written
consent of PAm. This Agreement may be amended by the written, mutual consent of the parties.
The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any provision of this Agreement on any
occasion shall not be considered a waiver of such provision or deprive that party of the right
thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that provision or any other provision of this
Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which, taken together, shall
constitute the whole of the Agreement as between the parties. Electronic signatures shall have
the same force and effect as manual signatures in respect of execution of this Agreement.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
- 3 -
SIGNATURE PAGE TO RESEARCH AGREEMENT
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date
first set forth above.
PAm: PROJECT APIS M
By: ______________________________
Date: ______________________________
Name: Danielle Downey
Title: Executive Director
CONTRACTOR:
Anthony Ventimiglia, Assistant VP Digitally signed by Anthony Ventimiglia,
for Research Administration for Assistant VP for Research Administration
Steven Taylor, Senior VP for for Steven Taylor, Senior VP for Research
Research & Economic & Economic Development
By: _De_ve_lop_m_ent_________Date_: 2_023_.08_.01 _08:_48:4_8 -_05'0_0'_________
8/1/23
Date: ________________________________
EXHIBIT A
382_WilliamsProposal
Management and dispersal of Tropilaelaps honey bee mites experiencing a
continental climate.
Problem and Significance
This work addresses PAm’s mission to improve honey bee health by examining management
and biology of a honey bee pest which could severely impact U.S. beekeepers. The research will
address knowledge gaps concerning the management and dispersal of the mite Tropilaelaps
mercedesae in Apis mellifera honey bee colonies. This information will contribute to the
development of appropriate plans if Tropilaelaps is introduced to the U.S., and will identify
effective Tropilaelaps management strategies should it become established. To accomplish this,
we will perform two field experiments in South Korea, and communicate our findings to
appropriate government agencies and the beekeeping community.
1. Principal Investigator(s)
Rogan Tokach, Dan Aurell, Geoff Williams*
Entomology & Plant Pathology, Auburn University, Auburn AL, USA
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0093-1126
*Contact: 334-329-8202 | williams@auburn.edu
Collaborator
Chuleui Jung
Andong National University, Andong, South Korea | cjung@andong.ac.kr
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8134-9279
2. Date and Duration of Proposed Study
Submission date: 1 June 2023
Duration of study: 1 January 2024 – 1 July 2025
3. Problem and Significance
The Tropilaelaps mercedesae mite has the potential to harm the U.S. beekeeping industry
like the Varroa destructor mite has done since it was introduced to the U.S. in the 1980s. Reports
from Asia, where the mite is currently present, suggest that Tropilaelaps parasitism causes
greater colony losses than Varroa (Buawangpong et al. 2015; Ritter & Schneider-Ritter 1988).
Feeding by Tropilaelaps on developing Apis mellifera honey bee larvae and pupae results in
disease transmission, reduced honey bee weight upon adult emergence, and shortened adult
honey bee life span (Khongphinitbunjong et al. 2015; 2016).
To protect U.S. honey bees, it is critical to prepare for a potential future introduction of
Tropilaelaps to the U.S. We currently lack knowledge on the mite’s routes of dispersal between
colonies, and we lack documented tools that can eradicate the mite without destroying colonies;
these are two priorities identified by USDA-APHIS as critical to developing an appropriate
1 of 10
6/6/2023 1
382_WilliamsProposal
response plan. Knowledge of these areas of biology and management will be essential in an
eradication program, but will also be useful for continued management if the mite becomes
established in the U.S. Therefore, the proposed work fulfills PAm’s overall mission of improving
honey bee health by investigating practical, non-destructive control solutions for Tropilaelaps
mites and by examining routes of Tropilaelaps dispersal.
Similar to that of Varroa, the life cycle of Tropilaelaps has two phases – reproductive and
dispersal (Traynor et al. 2020; Woyke 1994). During the reproductive phase, they reproduce
within capped brood cells and feed on developing larvae and pupae; during the dispersal phase,
they reside on adult bees. The Tropilaelaps mite spends only one-half to one-third as much time
in the dispersal phase as Varroa (Häubermann et al. 2016; Woyke 1994). This not only increases
the reproductive rate of Tropilaelaps compared to Varroa, but also limits effective chemical
control since most of the mites are protected by the wax capping of a brood cell (Buawangpong
et al. 2015; Woyke 1987). Unlike Varroa, there is no evidence that Tropilaelaps feeds on adult
honey bees during its dispersal phase (Rinderer et al. 1994).
To completely eliminate Tropilaelaps without destroying colonies, we propose to deprive the
mites of brood (eliminating their protected location and food source), and to apply chemical
treatment when all mites are in the dispersal phase on adult bees. By caging the queen for 24
days, we will induce the absence of brood (brood break), which has not been examined for
Tropilaelaps control since the early 1990s in western Asia (Woyke 1985; Woyke 1994).
Treatment with formic acid alone (a U.S.-registered treatment for honey bees) provided ~90%
efficacy against Tropilaelaps (Pettis et al. 2017) but was not sufficient to eliminate them
completely. By combining a brood break with chemical treatment with formic acid or oxalic
acid, we hope to achieve 100% efficacy against Tropilaelaps.
Also critical to developing a response to Tropilaelaps is an understanding of the ability of the
mite to disperse between colonies and apiaries – to assess the risk and speed of spread from a
location of first introduction. It is speculated that Tropilaelaps mites primarily disperse among
colonies via exchange of brood frames during colony equalization, splitting, and consolidation
(K. Khongphinitbunjong, personal communication); however, drifting adult honey bees or
robbing forager honey bees may also play a role (Rath et al. 1991; Laigo & Morse 1968). During
the dispersal phase, Varroa mites in colonies with low infestation rates prefer to feed on nurse
bees; however, that preference disappears with mites in highly infested colonies as they attach to
older workers that leave the colony, enabling dispersal to other colonies (Cervo et al. 2014). To
date, no studies have evaluated natural routes of Tropilaelaps mite dispersal. This is important to
evaluating the feasibility of containment, especially because feral colonies would likely be
present near infested colonies.
4. Objectives
1) To determine whether the combination of a brood break and chemical treatment eliminates or
reduces Tropilaelaps mite infestation in Apis mellifera honey bee colonies.
2) To describe natural dispersal routes of Tropilaelaps mites from Apis mellifera honey bee
colonies.
2 of 10
6/6/2023 2
382_WilliamsProposal
5. Experimental Design and Methods
Objective 1: To determine whether the combination of a brood break and chemical treatment
eliminates or reduces Tropilaelaps mite infestation in Apis mellifera honey bee colonies.
In South Korea during late summer 2024, four treatments groups each with 10 queenright
Apis mellifera honey bee colonies will be rented from a local beekeeper. Initially, we will
measure the population of brood and adult honey bees (Delaplane et al. 2013), and uncap 200
brood cells to determine the Tropilaelaps infestation rate (Dietemann et al. 2013; Pettis et al.
2017). We will also assess the infestation rate of adult honey bees using the alcohol wash method
(Anderson & Roberts 2013). Colonies will be assigned to treatments, ensuring that colony
strength and Tropilaelaps infestation are similar among groups. Treatment groups will include:
1) negative control, no management action, 2) brood break only, 3) brood break + oxalic acid
dribble, and 4) brood break + FormicPro®. These treatment groups were chosen because a brood
break only management plan was shown to be effective in previous studies (Woyke 1985; 1994).
Oxalic acid should also be effective when no brood are present, and formic acid was recently
shown to be effective against Tropilaelaps mites in the presence of brood (Pettis et al. 2017). On
experiment day 0, colonies receiving the brood break will have their queen caged in a QCC
queen cage (Thorne Beekeeping) attached to the top of a centrally placed brood frame (Büchler
et al. 2020). Colonies will again be assessed on day 24 for brood and adult honey bee population
size, as well as adult honey bee Tropilaelaps infestation rate (Anderson & Roberts 2013;
Delaplane et al. 2013). At this time, queens will be released because all mites will be in their
dispersal phase on adult honey bees due to the brood break. In FormicPro® colonies, one strip
will be applied on day 24, followed by a second strip on day 34. During the brood break, oxalic
acid treatment colonies will receive treatment using the dribble/solution method according to the
U.S. label rate. We suspect these treatments will be adequate because no mites will be protected
in brood cells. Once the queen has been laying and brood are present, 200 cells per colony will
again be uncapped on day 60 to measure infestation rate in brood cells, as well as adult honey
bee infestation rate, and brood and adult bee population (Dietemann et al. 2013; Pettis et al.
2017; Anderson & Roberts 2013 Delaplane et al. 2013).
Pitfalls: A potential challenge to the proposed work is finding colonies with sufficient
Tropilaelaps infestation rates. However, the South Korean collaborator has excellent connections
with local beekeepers so we anticipate that appropriate colonies will be identified; they will work
with beekeepers several months in advance of the trial to ensure success. Furthermore, the trial
will be performed in late summer when mite populations are historically high. Lastly, is potential
that our queens do not resume laying after 24 days of caging. This should be alleviated by our
use of the large queen cage (33x12x80 mm), which is designed for extended caging events
(Büchler et al. 2020). Nonetheless, we will have mated queens available in case of issues with
queen re-establishment.
Objective 2: To describe natural dispersal routes of Tropilaelaps mites from Apis mellifera honey
bee colonies.
At least 15 Apis mellifera honey bee colonies will be inspected by uncapping 200 brood
cells to evaluate Tropilaelaps infestation rates (Dietemann et al. 2013; Pettis et al. 2017), and
then assigned to three treatment groups: 1) normal-functioning colonies with a brood infestation
rate of 1-5%, 2) normal-functioning colonies with a brood infestation rate of >10%, and 3)
normal-functioning colonies with a brood infestation rate of >10% to be experimentally
3 of 10
6/6/2023 3
382_WilliamsProposal
weakened to encourage robbing. Treatment groups were chosen based on Varroa mites’
preference for nurse bees in colonies with a low mite infestation rate, which disappears with
increasing infestation (Cervo et al. 2014). If Tropilaelaps dispersal is like that of Varroa, colonies
with higher infestation rates will be more likely to have Tropilaelaps on exiting adults, and the
weakened colonies would be most likely to have dispersal mites on exiting adults (including
robber honey bees). Each colony will be fitted with a funnel trap designed to collect exiting adult
honey bees (Medrzycki 2013). Traps will be engaged for 10-15 minutes once a week for two
months so that adult worker and drone honey bees can be collected. We will assess the
infestation rate of these trapped bees using the alcohol wash method (Anderson & Roberts 2013).
Pitfalls: The major potential pitfall is improper functioning of the funnel trap. To avoid this,
we are currently testing prototypes in Auburn after discussing with the researcher who originally
designed the trap. As with Objective 1, low colony Tropilaelaps infestation rates could limit this
work, but again we think this will be overcome with the connections of the South Korean
collaborator to identify suitable colonies; additionally, colonies from his existing research apiary
can be used.
6. Intended Outcome
The intended outcome of this work is twofold: first, to support the development of
appropriate Tropilaelaps response guidelines by USDA-APHIS, and second, to inform U.S.
beekeepers of effective Tropilaelaps management strategies. Knowledge concerning non-
destructive honey bee colony actions, as well as natural dispersal of the mite, are critical to the
development of an appropriate response plan.
This work will be done in conjunction with similar research scheduled to be conducted in
Thailand. Together, the proposed experiments in South Korea and the planned experiments in
Thailand will prepare for an introduction of Tropilaelaps in cooler or warmer weather,
respectively. By testing formic acid and oxalic acid in both these conditions, we will test
management actions that suit the diverse climatic regions of the U.S. Furthermore, most work on
Tropilaelaps biology and management has been performed in Thailand, but traits affecting
management and dispersal could vary among regional populations of Tropilaelaps. By
replicating the work in South Korea, we importantly would determine whether the Tropilaelaps
dispersal behavior is consistent between these two potential source populations of Tropilaelaps
mites.
Dissemination of findings: Results from these experiments will be reported to USDA-APHIS to
address their current knowledge gaps, and will be communicated through talks at national
entomology and beekeeper meetings (e.g. Entomological Society of America, American
Beekeeping Federation, American Honey Producers Association) and in scientific journals.
7. Economic Feasibility for New Products
We do not anticipate that any new products will be developed from this research. However,
we anticipate identifying new uses for miticides (Formic Pro® and oxalic acid) and procedures
(brood breaks) that are currently registered and employed in the U.S. If effective, both miticides
could immediately be used by beekeepers against Tropilaelaps, should it be detected in the U.S.,
4 of 10
6/6/2023 4
382_WilliamsProposal
because products can be applied to a new target pest if they are applied according to label rates
(FIFRA 2012).
8. Project Timeline
The proposed project timeline is for funding over 18 months to allow for all experiments to
be conducted, data to be analyzed, and results be written and submitted to a scientific journal for
publication (Table 1). Research will be conducted in 2024 with funds provided through June
2025 to account for the open access publishing fee and communication of results to beekeepers.
Table 1. Anticipated timeline of the proposed work. X denotes activity.
Research Step 2024 2025
Jan-Mar Apr-Jun July-Sept Oct-Dec Jan-Mar Apr-Jun
Experimental design X X
finalization
Colonies first inspected X
for Tropilaelaps
Data collection X X
Data analysis X
Dissemination of X X X
results
9. Information Regarding Prior or Simultaneous Submissions
A proposal has been submitted to USDA-APHIS to conduct a similar study in Thailand
during Spring 2024. The purpose of performing similar work in different geographic regions of
Asia is to ensure that Tropilaelaps and Apis mellifera populations from Thailand are not over-
represented when building an understanding of this important parasite. It is possible that slight
differences in genotype-environment interactions could misinform response guidelines and the
U.S. beekeeping community (Büchler et al. 2014). The purpose of performing work in different
climatic regions and at different periods of the year is to improve our understanding of how two
active ingredients commonly used in the U.S. against Varroa – formic acid and oxalic acid – will
perform against Tropilaelaps under conditions likely to be experienced by U.S. beekeepers. It is
well-documented that the effectiveness of formic acid against Varroa is affected by ambient
temperature (Steube et al. 2021); this is likely also the case for Tropilaelaps.
10. Matching Funds Proposal
This proposal does not include a request for matching funds.
5 of 10
6/6/2023 5
382_WilliamsProposal
11. References
Anderson, D. L., Roberts, J. M. 2013. Standard methods for Tropilaelaps research. Journal of
Apiculture Research 52(4): 1-16.
Buawangpong, N., de Guzman, L. I., Khongphinitbunjong, K., Frake, A. M., Burgett, M.,
Chantawannakul, P. 2015. Prevalence and reproduction of Tropilaelaps mercedesae and
Varroa destructor in concurrently infested Apis mellifera colonies. Apidologie 46:779-786.
Büchler, R., Costa, C., Hatjina, F., Andonov, S., Meixner, M.. D., Le Conte, Y., Uzunov, A.,
Berg, S., Bienkowska, M., Bouga, M., Drazic, M., Dyrba, W., Kryger, P., Panasiuk, B.,
Pechhacker, H., Petrov, P., Ke
origin and its interaction with environmental effects on the survival of Apis mellifera L.
colonies in Europe. Journal of Apicultural Research 52(2): 205-214.
Pavlov, B.,
Charistos, L., Formato, G., Galarza, E., Gerula, D., Gregorc, A., Malagini, V., Meixner, M.,
, Z., Rivera- Vallon, J.,
Vojt, D., Wilde, J., Nanetti, A. 2020. Summer brood interruption as integrated management
strategy for effective Varroa control in Europe. Journal of Apiculture Research 59(5): 764-
773.
Cervo, R., Bruschini, C., Cappa, F., Meconcelli, S., Pieraccini, G., Pradella, D., Turillazzi, S.
2014. High Varroa mite abundance influences chemical profiles of worker bees and mite-
host preferences. Journal of Experimental Biology 217: 2998-3001.
Delaplane, K. S., van der Steen, J., Guzman-Novoa, E. Standard methods for estimating strength
parameters of Apis mellifera colonies. Journal of Apicultural Research 52(1): 1-12.
Dietemann, V., Nazzi, F., Martin, S. J., Anderson, D. L., Locke, B., Delaplane, K. S., Wauquiez,
Q., Tannahill, C., Frey, E., Ziegelmann, B., Rosenkranz, P., Ellis, J. D. 2013. Standard
methods for varroa research. Journal of Apicultural Research 52(1): 1-54.
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C. 168 (2012).
https://www.agriculture.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/FIFRA.pdf
Häußermann, C. K., Ziegelmann, B., Rosenkranz, P. Spermatozoa capacitation in female Varroa
destructor and its influence on the timing and success of female reproduction. Experimental
and Applied Acarology 69: 371-387.
Khongphinitbunjong, K., Neumann, P., Chantawannakul, P., Williams, G. R. 2016. The
ectoparasitic mite Tropilaelaps mercedesae reduces western honey bee, Apis mellifera,
longevity and emergence weight, and promotes Deformed wing virus infections. Journal of
Invertebrate Pathology 137: 38-42.
Khongphinitbunjong, K., de Guzman, L. I., Tarver, M. R., Rinderer, T. E., Chantawannakul, P.
2015. Interactions of Tropilaelaps mercedesae, honey bee viruses and immune response in
Apis mellifera. Journal of Apicultural Research 54(1): 40-47.
Laigo, F. M., Morse, R. A. 1968. The mite Tropilaelaps clareae in Apis dorsata colonies in the
Philippines. Bee World 49(3): 116-118.
Medrzycki, P. 2013. Funnel trap – a tool for selective collection of exiting forager bees for tests.
Journal of Apicultural research 52(3): 122-123.
Pettis, J. S., Rose, R., Chaimanee, V. 2017. Chemical and cultural control of Tropilaelaps
mercedesae mites in honeybee (Apis mellifera) colonies in Northern Thailand. Plos One
12(11).
6 of 10
6/6/2023 6
382_WilliamsProposal
Rath, W., Delfinado-Baker, M., Drescher, W. 1991. Observations on the mating behavior, sex
ratio, phoresy and dispersal of Tropilaelaps clareae (Acari: Laelapidae). International
Journal of Acarology 17(3): 201-208.
Rinderer, T. E., Oldroyd, B. P., Lekprayoon, C., Wongsiri, S., Boonthai, C., Thapa, R. 1994.
Extended survival of the parasitic honey bee mite Tropilaelaps clarea on adult workers of
Apis mellifera and Apis dorsata. Journal of Apicultural Research 33(3): 171-174.
Ritter, W., Scneider-Ritter, U. 1988. Differences in biology and means of controlling Varroa
jacobsoni and Tropilaelaps clareae, two novel parasitic mites of Apis mellifera. pp. 387–395.
In G. R. Needham, M. Delfinado- Baker and C. E. Bowman (eds.), Africanized honey bees
and bee mites. Halstead Press, New York, NY.
Steube, X., Beinert, P., Kirchner, W. H. 2021. Efficacy and temperature dependence of 60% and
85% formic acid treatment against Varroa destructor. Apidologie 52: 720-729.
Traynor, K. S., Mondet, F., de Miranda, J. R., Techer, M., Kowallik, V., Oddie, M. A. Y.,
Chantawannakul, P., McAfee, A. 2020. Varroa destructor: a complex parasite, crippling
honey bees worldwide. Trends in Parasitology 36(7): 592-606.
Woyke, J. 1985. Further investigations into control of the parasite bee mite Tropilaelaps clareae
without medication. Journal of Apicultural Research 24(4): 250-254.
Woyke, J. 1987. Comparative population dynamics of Tropilaelaps clareae and Varroa
jacobsoni mites on honeybees. Journal of Apicultural Research 26(3): 196-202.
Woyke, J. 1994. Tropilaelaps clareae females can survive for four weeks when given open bee
brood of Apis mellifera. Journal of Apicultural Research 33(1): 21-25.
12. Budget Request
Budget Summary
Description Year 1 ($) Year 2 ($) Total ($)
Salary 25,453 3,041 28,494
Benefits 3,359 934 4,293
Equipment 0 0
Supplies 650 0 650
Travel (Domestic) 1,262 1,131 2,393
Travel (International) 5,300 0 5,300
Contractual 15,300 0 15,300
Other 0 2,000 2,000
Total Direct 51,324 7,106 58,430
Indirect 0 0 0
Total 51,324 7,106 58,430
Budget Justification
Personnel
Total funds requested are $28,494. This includes funds for Williams (PI) for 0.5 month totaling
$5,994 to coordinate the project (experimental procedures, data collection and analyses, and
communication of results). Funds also requested for a post-doc for 5 months, totaling $22,500;
this person will be responsible for day-to-day operations, especially data collection and analysis,
as well as preparation of a manuscript and delivery of presentations.
7 of 10
6/6/2023 7
382_WilliamsProposal
Fringe benefits
Total funds requested are $4,293. This includes funds for Williams’ fringe (30.7%) totaling
$1,840 and post-doc fringe (10.9%) totaling $2,453.
Equipment
No funds are requested.
Supplies
Total funds requested are $650. This includes beekeeping treatment applications totaling $125,
lab supplies (e.g. gloves, forceps, sealable bags, magnifiers and lights) for $100, beekeeping
supplies (e.g. beesuit, smokers, hive tools) for $200, and bee entrance collectors $225 ($15 x 15
hives).
Travel
Domestic: Total funds requested are $2,393. This includes funds for return shuttle between
Auburn and ATL ($131 x 3 return trips) totaling $393. One trip is for travel to Korea, the other
two trips is for travel to the two national beekeeper organization meetings to present results.
Funds are further requested for flights and accommodation for the two beekeeper meetings (each
of AHPA and ABF - $500 for travel and $500 for accommodation).
International: Total funds requested for travel and accommodation associated with field work in
Andong, Korea totaling $5,300. This includes $2,200 for the flight, $100 for return transport
between Seoul and Andong, and $3,000 for accommodation ($1,000 x 3 months).
Contractual
Funds are requested so that contractual services can be provided by Andong University, South
Korea for a total of $15,300. This is to support the project with local personnel and colony rental
fees to perform the work.
Salary: Total request is for $7,800. This is to fund 2 local students to support the project
(each person: $1,300 x 3 months).
Fringe: No fringe is required for the salary requests
Other: Total request is $7,500 to rent honey bee colonies for use in the trial ($150 x 50
colonies).
Other
Funds are requested to cover open access publication costs totaling $2,000.
8 of 10
6/6/2023 8